3329 write kep for retriable and non-retriable pod failures for jobs (#1)
mimowo/enhancements: keps/sig-apps/3329-retriable-and-non-retriable-failures/README.md

The Pod status (which includes exit codes) coule be lost if the failed pod is garbage collected.
First, it should be rather rare so the overall consequence of unnecessary pod restarts
will be limited. Second, we can prevent this by using the feature of
[job tracking with finalizers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/).

<!--
What are the risks of this proposal, and how do we mitigate? Think broadly.
For example, consider both security and how this will impact the larger
Kubernetes ecosystem.

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

## Design Details

### JobSpec API

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: main-job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./program"]
      - name: monitoring-job-container
        image: job-monitoring
        command: ["./monitoring"]
  backoffLimit: 3
  backoffPolicy:
    onConditions:
    - containerExitCodes: 1-12,100-127
      containerName: main-job-container

>       action: Terminate

Reviewer: This is important to clarify: What does this mean?

Would the rest of the pods be terminated? Would they allow to run? The simplest approach is to terminate all the pods, just like we do when the `backoffLimit` is reached. And we can introduce other options (and some specific to indexed jobs) in a follow up KEP next release.

The Pod status (which includes exit codes) coule be lost if the failed pod is garbage collected.
First, it should be rather rare so the overall consequence of unnecessary pod restarts
will be limited. Second, we can prevent this by using the feature of
[job tracking with finalizers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/).

<!--
What are the risks of this proposal, and how do we mitigate? Think broadly.
For example, consider both security and how this will impact the larger
Kubernetes ecosystem.

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

## Design Details

### JobSpec API

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Job
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: main-job-container
        image: job-image
        command: ["./program"]
      - name: monitoring-job-container
        image: job-monitoring
        command: ["./monitoring"]
  backoffLimit: 3
  backoffPolicy:
    onConditions:
    - containerExitCodes: 1-12,100-127
      containerName: main-job-container
      action: Terminate

>     - podStatusReasons: ClusterScalingDown,JobPreemption

Reviewer: clusterAutoscaler won't delete a pod. It would use the evictions API https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/api-eviction/

Check what's the status reason in this case and use that.

<!--
What are the caveats to the proposal?
What are some important details that didn't come across above?
Go in to as much detail as necessary here.
This might be a good place to talk about core concepts and how they relate.
-->

### Risks and Mitigations

<!-- Increased complexity of the Job management, by interaction with some of
already exiting Job configuration options. To mitigate this, we introduce
minimal API which will allow to satisfy the main usage scenario.-->

The Pod status (which includes exit codes) coule be lost if the failed pod is garbage collected.
First, it should be rather rare so the overall consequence of unnecessary pod restarts
will be limited. Second, we can prevent this by using the feature of
[job tracking with finalizers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/finalizers/).

<!--
What are the risks of this proposal, and how do we mitigate? Think broadly.
For example, consider both security and how this will impact the larger
Kubernetes ecosystem.

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

## Design Details

> The `DeleteOptions` is extended by the reason field to convey the reason of

Reviewer: Add:

```
### Reason in DeleteOptions
```

deletion.

```golang
// DeleteOptions may be provided when deleting an API object.
type DeleteOptions struct {
  ...

> 	// A brief CamelCase message indicating the reason why the object is deleted (example: "Eviction").

Reviewer: Preemption is a better example, because Eviction is already inserted by kubelet in a different way.

> 	// Particularly useful when determining if a pod should be restarted after termination.

Reviewer: Remove this line.

This API is independent of the job retries feature.

	// + optional
	Reason *string `json:"reason,omitempty" protobuf:"bytes,6,rep,name=reason"`
}
```

> The received `reason` will be stored in the already existing `status.reason` field in `PodStatus`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the case of Pods, kube-apiserver will store the received `reason` in the already existing `reason` field in the `PodStatus`:
```

```
// PodStatus represents information about the status of a pod. Status may trail the actual
// state of a system.
type PodStatus struct {
  ...
	// A brief CamelCase message indicating details about why the pod is in this state. e.g. 'Evicted'
	// +optional
	Reason string
  ...
}

> ```

Reviewer: Also explain how kube-scheduler, `pkg/controller/podgc` and `pkg/controller/nodelifecycle` will use this new DeleteOption field.

### JobSpec API

We extend the Job API in order to allow to apply different actions depending
on the conditions associated with the pod failure.

```golang
// BackoffPolicyAction specifies how a Pod failure is handled
type BackoffPolicyAction string

const (

	// This is an action which might be taken on pod failure - mark the
	// pod's job as Failed

> 	TerminateBackoffAction BackoffPolicyAction = "Terminate"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// TerminateBackoffAction means that, when there is a Pod failure that matches the condition,
	// The job is marked as Failed and all other running Pods are terminated.
	TerminateBackoffAction BackoffPolicyAction = "Terminate"
```

	// This is an action which might be taken on pod failure - the pod will be
	// restarted and the counter for .backoffLimit will not be incremented.
	IgnoreBackoffAction BackoffPolicyAction = "Ignore"

	// This is the default action which might be taken on pod failure -
	// the counter for the backoffLimit is incremented and the pod is restarted
	// if the backoffLimit is not reached yet. Once reached, the pod's job is
	// marked as Failed

> 	DefaultBackoffAction BackoffPolicyAction = "Default"

Reviewer: Do we need this constant?

If users want the "default" behavior, they simply wouldn't add a condition for it.

)

// BackoffPolicyActionWithConditions specifies the action taken on a pod failure
// and the conditions which need to be satisfied to take the specified action
type BackoffPolicyActionWithConditions struct {

	// Specifies the action taken on a pod failure if all the specified
	// conditions are satisfied
	Action BackoffPolicyAction

	// Restricts the check for exit codes to only apply to the container with
	// the specified name.
	// +optional
	ContainerName *string

	// Specifies the comma-separated list of exit codes or ranges of exit codes
	// +optional
	ContainerExitCode *string

> 	// Specifies the comma-separated list of reasons for the pod failure

Reviewer: It would be useful for compute providers to be able to say something like: "any infrastructure error" without having to list all of them. Most likely, the way to express this would be something like: anything that is not an empty reason, because when a pod fails on its own kubelet doesn't introduce a reason.

Alternatives are to use regex or an expression matcher (similar to a label selector) as we discussed offline.

	// +optional
	PodStatusReason *string
}

// BackoffPolicy describes the handling of failed pods. The OnConditions field
// allows to specify the set of actions and the conditions which need to be
// satisfied to take this action

> type BackoffPolicy struct {

Reviewer: Also show where this field fits in the `JobSpec`

the large workloads are often scheduled to run over night or over the
weekend, there is no human assistance to terminate such a job early.

The need for solving the problem has been emphasized by the kubernetes
community in the issues, see: [#17244](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/17244) and [#31147](https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/31147).

Some third-party frameworks have implemented retry policies for their pods:
- [TensorFlow Training (TFJob)](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training/tftraining/)
- [Argo workflow](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/examples/retry-conditional.yaml) ([example](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-workflows/blob/master/examples/retry-conditional.yaml))

Additionally, some pod failures are not linked with the container runtime,
but rather with the internal kubernetes cluster management (see:
[Scheduling, Preemption and Eviction](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/)).

> Such pod failures should be recongnized as retriable and should not increment

Reviewer: I would say something like:

Some cluster administrators just want to make these pod failures not count towards the backoffLimit

## Proposal

Extension of the Job API with a new field which allows to configure the set of conditions
which determine how a pod failure is handled. We extend the Job API to support discrimination

> of pod failures based on container exit codes as well as the pod's `Status.Reason` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of pod failures based on container exit codes as well as the pod's `status.reason` field.
```

We usually refer to fields in their json form

The pod's `Status.Reason` field will be used to store the reason of a pod's failure when

> originated by an API request. To acheive this we extend the request API to pass the reason

Reviewer: ```suggestion
originated by a kubernetes component (kube-scheduler, kubelet, pod-gc, etc). To achieve this we extend the Pod delete API to pass the reason
```
